The default values of the command line parameters may be seen by
specifying @w{@code{--help [parameter]}} on the command line.

@code{-C, --conf} @var{level}
@quotation
Specify confidence level at which 1D errors are reported.
@end quotation

@code{-D, --defaults} 
@quotation
Run without any configuration files, using internal default parameters.
If the configuration files are specified, -D does nothing.
@end quotation

@code{-E, --evalonly}
@quotation
Evaluate the merit function at the initial vector and quit---do not
carry out any fitting or error analysis.
@end quotation

@code{-H, --hardlimits}
@quotation
Ignore the limits set in the input parameter file; use hard
limits on the parameter values as specified by the calling 
program.
@end quotation

@code{-L, --license}
@quotation
Display the terms for copying, modifying and redistributing
this program.
@end quotation

@code{-R, --remember}
@quotation
Normally, if the user modifies the fit/frozen state of parameters via
the @w{@code{--parameter}} command line option, the new state is
recorded in the output file. With @w{@code{--remember}}, the old state
is recorded instead. This is useful in conjunction with the @code{%}
modifier to @w{@code{--parameter}}.
@end quotation

@code{-S, --seed} @var{number}
@quotation
The random number seed is normally read from /dev/random.
This uses the user specified value instead. Random numbers
are used in the Tree MCMC mode, as well as in the uphill
steps taken using the @w{@code{--floataround}} option.
Implies @w{@code{--predictable}} in Tree MCMC mode.
@end quotation

@code{-X, --overwrite}
@quotation
Overwrite all existing files, rather than exiting with
an error condition.
@end quotation

@code{-a, --inputaccuracy} @var{eps}
@quotation
Specify the fractional accuracy of the fitting function
provided by the calling program. This is used in estimating
the error on the numerical derivatives.
@end quotation

@code{-c, --covaronly}
@quotation
Do not conduct minimization. If the covariance matrix exists on the disk
already, read it in and use it to output confidence contours.
If not, or if @w{@code{--ignorecovar}} is specified, calculate the
covariance matrix using the initial conditions.
@end quotation

@code{-d, --dumpconfig}
@quotation
Write the default configuration file to standard output.
@end quotation

@code{-e, --eps} @var{eps}
@quotation
Specify the fractional tolerance for convergence.
@end quotation

@code{-g, --gaussstep} @var{[sigma]}
@quotation
For MCMC mode only. Initial sigma of Gaussian by which to step the
parameters fractionally.
@end quotation

@code{-h, --help} @var{[parameters]}
@quotation
Summarize the available options. If @w{@var{parameters}} are specified,
show their default value.
@end quotation

@code{-m, --mcmc} @var{number}
@quotation
Do not minimize. Instead, generate a Tree Markov Chain Monte Carlo
Chain of length @w{@var{number}}.
@end quotation

@code{-p, --parameter} @var{name}[%=~@@][@var{value}]
@quotation
This powerful option allows manipulation of the fit or frozen
parameters, and may be specified as many times as needed.
The parameter @w{@var{name}} is selected. The operator @samp{@@}
freezes it at @w{@var{value}}, or at its initial value if
@w{@var{value}} is not specified. The operator @samp{~} does
the opposite: it causes @w{@var{name}} to be fit, starting 
with @w{@var{value}}, or with its initial value if @w{@var{value}}
is not specified. The operators @samp{=} respects the initial
fit/frozen state of @w{@var{name}}, but sets its initial
value to @w{@var{value}}. Finally, the @samp{%} operator 
causes @var{name} to be fit, but freezes all other parameters
not previously modified by @samp{%}.

Examples:

@code{-p slope=2} sets @var{slope} to 2, but does not change its
fit/frozen status

@code{-p slope~} causes @var{slope} to be fit starting at its 
initial value, even if it was frozen by default

@code{-p slope@@3} freezes @var{slope} at the value 3.

@code{-p slope%2 -p intercept%} freezes all parameters except
@w{@var{slope}} and @w{@var{intercept}}; @w{@var{slope}} is fit
with an initial value of 2, while @w{@var{intercept}} is fit
starting at its default initial value.
@end quotation

@code{-q, --quiet} 
@quotation
Try to output as little text as possible.
@end quotation

@code{-t, --timer} 
@quotation
Measure Hrothgar's performance (the time it takes for each
Levenberg-Marquardt step). Works with the clustered as well
as the single CPU modes.
@end quotation

@code{-v, --verbose} 
@quotation
Show lots of diagnostic output.
@end quotation

